---
title: "Boost Your Freelance Hustle with Next.js: Why This Framework is Perfect for Your Next Side Project"
date: "3/1/2023"
---

# Boost Your Freelance Hustle with Next.js: Why This Framework is Perfect for Your Next Side Project

Next.js is a React framework designed for production. React is a powerful library that requires a lot of dependencies for implementing big projects, such as routing and SEO. Next.js, on the other hand, combines the best React ecosystem libraries into one bundle, making it easier to build feature-rich web applications quickly.

## Key Features & Benefits

### File-based Routing

One of the key features of Next.js is file-based routing. With this feature, you can define pages and routes with files and folders instead of code. This means you write less code, do less work, and have a more understandable project.

### Server-Side Rendering

Next.js also provides automatic page pre-rendering, which is great for SEO and initial load time. It also blends client-side and server-side rendering, allowing you to fetch data on the server and render finished pages. This can help to reduce the load on the client-side and improve the user experience.

### Full-stack Capabilities

Another great benefit of Next.js is its full-stack capabilities. You can easily add backend (server-side) code to your web application, such as storing data, getting data, authentication, and more. This can all be added to your React/Next projects, making it an excellent choice for building feature-rich web applications.

## Two Forms of Pre-Rendering

Next.js offers two forms of pre-rendering: static generation and server-side rendering.

### Static Generation

Static generation is good for websites that don't change data often. It only works in component files. Here's an example of static site generation using Next.js:

```jsx
// This an Example of Static Site Generation
export async function getStaticProps() {
    // Fetch data from an API
    return {
        props: {
            meetups: DUMMY_MEETUPS
        },
        // incremental static site generation
        revalidate: 10 // it will regenerate the pages every 10 seconds
    }
};
```

To generate the paths that are generated by static site generation at build time, you must use `getStaticPaths()`.

```jsx
export async function getStaticPaths(){
    return {
        paths: [
            { params: { meetupId: 'm1' } },
            { params: { meetupId: 'm2' } }
        ],
        fallback: false
    };
};
```

Static site generation is ideal for data that doesn't change often, such as blogs.

### Server-Side Rendering

Server-side rendering is ideal for frequently changing data because it updates the data after every incoming request. Here's an example of server-side rendering using Next.js:

```jsx
export async function getServerSideProps(context){
    // Fetch data from an API
    const req = context.req;
    const res = context.res;

    return {
        props: {
            meetups: DUMMY_MEETUPS
        }
    }
};
```

## Metadata and Head

Next.js provides an easy way to add metadata to your pages using the `Head` component.

```jsx
import Head from 'next/head';

	<Head>
		<title>React Meetups</title>
		<meta name="description" content="Browse a huge list of highly active React meetups!" />
	</Head>
```

Note that you can also make the title and content dynamic using props description and titles.